Chainguard Repo for Python (#3419)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/libraries/python/overview.md

that source be available. Therefore, packages that do not provide a valid source
URL cannot be rebuilt within the Chainguard Factory.

Chainguard Libraries for Python can be consumed through [Chainguard
Repository](/chainguard/libraries/chainguard-repository/), which provides a single endpoint for Python package retrieval and
supports protected upstream fallback when configured for your organization. This
allows builds to prefer Chainguard-built packages first while still covering
packages or wheel files that Chainguard does not currently serve directly. Configure this endpoint [globally through a repository manager](/chainguard/libraries/python/global-configuration/) for centralized
access control across your organization, or use it [directly from individual

> build tools](/chainguard/libraries/python/build-configuration/) if that matches your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
build tools](/chainguard/libraries/python/build-configuration/).
```

`https://libraries.cgr.dev/python/integrity/PACKAGE/VERSION/FILE/bundle.json`
specifically for each package, version, and file. 

## Upstream fallback policy and controls

Chainguard Libraries for Python supports an optional built-in fallback to
the upstream PyPI index, managed through the [Chainguard
Repository](/chainguard/chainguard-repository/overview/). By default, the endpoint serves
only Chainguard-built packages. When the upstream fallback is enabled, upstream packages are
subject to additional security controls before being served.

When using upstream fallback, the visibility of Chainguard-built versus upstream-fallback artifacts depends on the package manager in use:

> - **uv**: When `uv lock` resolves dependencies through Chainguard Repository, the resulting `uv.lock` can include per-artifact URLs that point to both `.../python/simple/` and `.../python-upstream/simple/`. This makes upstream fallback visible directly in the lockfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **uv**: When `uv lock` resolves dependencies through Chainguard Repository, the resulting `uv.lock` can include per-artifact URLs that point to both `.../python/simple/` and `.../python-upstream/simple/`. This provides visibility of upstream fallback usage directly in the lockfile.
```

> - **pip**: To inspect whether a dependency came from the Chainguard-built path, use `pip install --report` and review the reported download URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **pip**: To inspect whether a dependency was built by Chainguard or served from the upstream fallback, use `pip install --report` and review the per-artifact URLs that point to either `.../python/simple/` or `.../python-upstream/simple/`
```

> - **Poetry**: Inspect the lockfile for the package source URLs.

Reviewer: we need to test this first
